== README

=== WARNING

Understanding this app requires a reasonable understanding of Rails and Ruby.

=== Setup

==== Ruby Setup

This project uses Ruby 2.0.0-p247 as defined in .rbenv-version, we recommend using rbenv to handle multiple versions of ruby.
This project uses bundler to manage gems run <tt>gem install bundler</tt> to install.
After installing these, install dependencies with <tt>bundle install</tt>.
The versioning control system is git.

==== Database Setup

This project is designed to work with PostgreSQL.

config/database.yml should look like
<tt>
development:
  adapter: postgresql
  encoding: unicode
  database: dbname
  pool: pool
  host: hostname
  port: port (usually 5432)
  username: dbusername
  password: dbpassword

# Warning: The database defined as "test" will be erased and
# re-generated from your development database when you run "rake".
# Do not set this db to the same as development or production.
test:
  adapter: sqlite3
  database: db/test.sqlite3
  pool: 5
  timeout: 5000
</tt>

After connecting the database run <tt>rake db:create</tt>
Then run <tt>rake metrics:init</tt>

==== Environment
.env should look like
<tt>
RACK_ENV=development
PORT=3000
SECRET_KEY=keyGeneratedWithRakeSecret
GETTER_PASSWORD=getterServerPassword
</tt>

Make sure you generate a key with <tt>rake secret</tt>.

==== Running

With the Heroku toolbelt installed use <tt>foreman start</tt> to run VizAnalytics from Procfile
Without Heroku installed use <tt>rails server</tt> to run locally

=== Controllers

* GuestController
* HistoryController
* MetricsController

=== Metrics

* Raw
* Calculated
* Percentile

All metric definitions are made in app/models/definitions

Use <tt>rails g percentile MetricName</tt> to generate a percentile metric for MetricName.

For examples of model definitions, look in the app/models/definitions directory

=== User Management

After adding a new user to the Getter Server...
Open up <tt>rails console</tt> and create new users like this.

<tt>
company = Company.new(:name => 'name', :url => 'getter hash key')
company.save
user = User.new(:username => 'username', :email => 'test@example.com', :password => 'password', :password_confirmation => 'password', :company => company)
user.save
</tt>

=== Tasks

<tt>rake worker:update_raw</tt> then <tt>rake worker:update_calculated</tt> should be run every week. These may take a long time.
<tt>rake metrics:init</tt> Initializes the singleton database records for all definitions in app/models/definitions.

=== Deployment

Make sure the Heroku toolbelt is installed, as outlined in Heroku's documentation.

Set config variables with <tt>heroku config:set VAR=value</tt>
Setting the DATABASE_URL config variable in Heroku selects the database used for production.
The other config variables should mirror .env

After getting permissions and commiting changes, use <tt>git push heroku master</tt> to push changes live on viz-analytics.herokuapp.com

Use <tt>heroku run [cmd]</tt> to run tasks on the server.

=== TODO

A graphical interface for viewing change in metrics over time has been half-implemented in the HistoryController.